To log in without registering, use "guest" as both the username and password.

For this project, I implemented a website called Client Contact Directory. To give some background on my site, I work at a firm called Cambridge Associates which is an investment consulting firm that provides services to numerous clients. Our clientelle consists of endowments, foundations, pensions, and private families that need our help managing their portfolios to ensure they get the highest level of returns on their investments. We host a number of applications that provide essential information when it comes to making investment decisions. Both internal investment analysts and external clients rely on these tools heavily when managing portfolios.

Each client is unique in what they need, so the level of access to these applications varies from client to client. Collecting data on which types of clients have access to which application(s) is extremely important information to our firm because it gives us insight on how to attract potential new clients and it guides us when deciding how to allocate internal resources to best serve the needs of our clients. I work on the team that manages each client user's account, so a large part of my role is providing internal stakeholders with data on the people who utilize our proprietary applications. I also answer any questions about the functionality of each application, so it is also important for my team to know who has access to what. Some common use cases of the questions my team receive are:

Which applications are included in this client's contact? Does this client have access to Application X?
Does this specific individual have access to Application X? If not, are they eligible to receive access to that application?
Can you provide me with a list of all active users at Client ABC and show me which applications each user has access to?
Can you provide me with a breakdown of our clients/users by application, institution type, and/or region?
Can you give the names of the investment directors assigned to this list of clients?

The website I created facilitates my team in answering each of these questions. This website can be accessed by going to https://client-contact-directory.herokuapp.com/ Once the site is accessed, the user is presented with a login form that prompts them for their username and password. Below the form, the user can click either Log In or Register.

This page has several checks in place to ensure the user's input is valid. If only a username is entered when "Log In" is selected, the user will be redirected to a page with an error message. In this scenario, the message will alert the user that a username is required. The user can click on the Cambridge Associates icon in the upper-left corner to return to the login form. When the "Log In" button is selected, my program also checks whether a password was entered. If both fields have user input, it checks whether there is an entry in the "users" table of our SQL database (directory.db) that matches the username and password that was entered.

If the user does not have a username or password, they can select "Register" which will open an additional form as a modal. This form prompts the user for their full name, email address, username, and password. Each of these fields must be filled in, the username cannot match that of an existing user, and the email address must be from a Cambridge Associates account. The logic for this is that our clientele information is sensitive and subject to NDAs, so we cannot allow outsiders to view this data. For the purpose of this project, all data currently stored in the directory.db database is fake and does not actually represent Cambridge Associate's clients. If the user does not enter a Cambridge Associates related email address, they will be notified that one is required and that they can complete the registration using "guest@cambridgeassociates.com". Finally, the password and password confirmation fields are checked to ensure that both entries match.

Once the new user successfully completes the Registration form and selects "Register", they are brought to the landing page of the website, "/search". At the top of the screen, a dashboard displays how many people have access to our three most heavily-used products: Optica Research, Optica Benchmarks, and Optica Peers. Each of these boxes acts as a link and is associated with a certain "type". When any of the three boxes are clicked, the user is brought to a page, "/users", that lists each of the users that have access that the selected application. For example, the user can click on the lime-colored "Optica Research" box and they will see a table that contains each client user that has access to that Optica Research, their email address, and information about the client organization to which they belong.

To give an example on how this could be useful to my team, let's say we received a request to give a breakdown of clients with access to Optica Research by region. We could come to this "/users?type=research" page to pull that information. Or perhaps there was a bug in Optica Research and we needed to notify all active users that have access to the application. We could also come to this page to put together an email distribution list.

If the user wanted to get supplemental information, each row in this table is tagged to the client's ID and acts as a link. When a row is clicked, the user is brought to a page, "/searchresult/type=clientID", that displays a table with all users at that client organization. For each user, check marks indicate which applications they have access to. In addition, hovering over the user's name will display that user's Start Date and Email Address. A tab above the table title "Additional Client Information" allows the user to obtain more detail on the type of organization, where the client is located, their investment director, asset size, and security level.

To return to the home page, the user can click the logo in the top left or "Search" in the Menu to the left. The bottom half of this page presents the user with a Search form. Here, they can enter the Client Name, the Client ID, or both. If neither field is entered or if the user's input doesn't match any of the clients listed in the "clients" table, the user will see an error message. If the input matches only one client in the "clients" table, the user will be redirected to the same page mentioned above. Again, they will see each user related to that client, check marks for each application a user has access to, and additional information about the client. If the input on the Search form matches multiple clients (for example, if the user entered "college" as the client name), they will first see a list of all matches from which they can choose before seeing this table.

For my team's purposes, this table would primarily be used if we received a question from a client on how to get a specific piece of data. Upon receiving this request, the first thing my team would do is search for the client to see which applications they have access to. It may be the case that, due to their level of service, the client doesn't have access to the application that would provide them with the requested data. In that case, we would respond by apologetically explaining that we cannot assist. It also may be the case that the client as a whole has access to the necessary application, but that specific individual does not. In this scenario, we would work with them to set them up with the appropriate access.

My team also frequently fields requests to provide internal stakeholders with lists of clients that are located in a specific region, clients of a specific institution type, or both. To obtain this information, a user could click on the "Advanced Search" link in the navigation bar. This search form contains two dropdown lists - one for Institution Type and one for Region. These dropdowns are populated with all possible options. The user can select an option from either dropdown list, or both. Below the search form, there are two buttons - one to search by clients and one to search by users. The user can hover over either button to get a brief description of what result clicking that button will produce.

Clicking on "Search Clients" will result in a table which lists each client with the selected Institution Type and/or Region, ordered by Client ID. This table displays the Client ID, name, institution type, region, lead investment director, asset size, and security level. This table is interactive, so as seen before, each row acts as a link. Clicking on a row brings the user the same page that the "regular" search produces, which displays all users associated with the client, checkmarks to indicate which applications a user has access to, and additional client information.

Clicking on "Search Users" will result in a table which lists each user that is associated to a client with the selected Institution Type and/or Region, ordered alphabetically. The resulting table also shows which applications a user has access to. This page would primarily be useful if we wanted to get a sense of which applications are most predominantly used in a given region or within a certain institution type.

Some of our clients go by aliases, so it is sometimes unclear which name a client is stored under in our database. In cases like these, a user could click on the "Client List" option within the navigation bar to obtain a full list of all of Cambridge Associate's clients. From there, the user could select "Ctrl+F" on their keyboard to search for potential names to see whether any results pop up. This would be quicker than repeatedly going back to the Search/home page to do multiple searches. As seen before, the Client List table is interactive, so once a client of interest is identified, the user can click on the corresponding row to access a list of that client's users.

Below the Client List option on the navigation bar, a user can click on the "User List +" option. Clicking here expands a dropdown list, from which users can choose from one of our three primary applications: Optica Research, Optica Benchmarks, and Optica Peers. Recall, these three applications were also options on the Dashboard portion of the home/search page. Clicking on an application name from within the navigation panel produces the same result as what was seen before - the user is redirected to a list of all users that have access to the selected application. Once again, the rows in this table can be clicked to access additional client information.

Aside from an option to Log Out, the final option within the navigation bar is "Page Legend". My team often gets asked questions about the capabilities of various applications and how some applications differ from each other. Thus, it's beneficial to have a central location that stores descriptions of each application. For the purposes of this project, I also wanted to provide those evaluating the site with some context on what each application does.
